+++
date = 2021-09-05
title = "This Week: 5"
+++

This week I started thinking about the next post in First steps with Embedded Rust.
I have two posts I want to do, I'm not sure sure which I should do first.

## Something about embedded debugging

Debugging plays a slightly different role in the embedded world. The debug probe
can be used to flash a program onto the device and stream arbitrary data to and from
the device as well as the more familiar step-through debugging. It can also be more
difficult to set up, often requiring a separate device.

I do not want to do a post that explains what debugging means to embedded. There are
enough good sources for that. And I do not want to do a post that gets a debugging
environment set up for a development board, the new micro:bit discovery book does a
great job of that.

I do think there is a gap in showing how to get set up debugging with a few different
boards. I'm unsure whether a single general post or multiple specific posts would be
more useful.

- Debugging the Raspberry Pi Pico with the hs-probe
- Debugging the Black Pill with the hs-probe
- Overview of Embedded Rust debugging options
  - probe-rs
  - openocd / pyocd
  - different gdb front ends

## Something exploring the Embedded Rust ecosystem

There are already great resources describing the different parts of the ecosystem. While
the PACs are obviously very similar there is often quite a bit of variety between HALs
and even more so between different BSPs. I'd like to do a post that builds a small
very general program for multiple boards to see how the BSPs and HALs differ. I think
it would be really interesting to follow them down to the PAC level and see how a similar
low level API can result in quite different higher level APIs.

The program I've thought of doing is called tick-tick-boom. An on board LED is flashed at
a regular interval (the tick). After a random number of intervals as many LEDs as are
available are flashed at random (the boom) until a button is pressed to go back to ticking.
I think this would be interesting because it would require accessing a few common peripherals;
the GPIO (both for output and input), an RNG and a Timer. It also offers the opportunity to
look at pulling out core logic defined against common traits from `embedded-hal` and `rand_core`.

I think this is the post I have clearest in my mind but it feels long and potentially rambling.
I am a bit worried I'd struggle to pull it off as well as I'd like to.
